docs: add additional payments documentation (#27379)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/onchain-finance/agentic-payments/spending-policies.mdx

goal:
  description: >-
    Reader can implement onchain spending policies for agents using a custom
    Move module with caps, allowlists, and expiry
  requires:
    - has_frontmatter:
        - title
        - description
        - keywords
      label: Has required frontmatter fields
    - min_words: 300
      label: Needs more content depth
    - pattern: '```'
      min: 1
      label: Has code examples
    - has_questions: true
      label: Needs questions for AI search visibility
    - has_answer: true
      label: Needs answer summary for AI citation
builder_paths:
  - path_id: agentic-payments
    path_name: Agentic Payments
    step: Spending policies
    stage: Authorization
questions:
  - How do I limit what an agent can spend on Sui?
  - How do I implement spending caps for autonomous agents on Sui?
  - How do I revoke an agent's spending authority on Sui?
answer: >-
  Sui does not ship a built-in spending delegation module. You implement
  spending mandates as custom Move objects that define per-transaction limits,
  total caps, recipient allowlists, and time-based expiry, enforced onchain so
  the agent cannot exceed its bounds even if compromised.
---

> An agent that can sign transactions needs guardrails. A **spending mandate** is an onchain object that defines what the agent can spend, to whom, and for how long. The Move module enforces the mandate, so the agent cannot exceed its bounds even if the backend is compromised.

Author: ```suggestion
An agent that can sign transactions needs guardrails. A spending mandate is an onchain capability object that limits how an agent may spend coins it already controls or receives in a transaction. The mandate defines per-transaction limits, total spend limits, allowed recipients, and expiry. The Move module enforces those bounds, so even a compromised backend cannot spend outside the mandate.

A spending mandate is not an ERC-20-style allowance over the owner's wallet. It does not let the agent pull coins from the owner's address. The agent must present both the mandate object and the payment coin in the PTB. If you need owner-funded delegated spending, use an escrow or vault design where funds are deposited into an object controlled by the mandate.
```

## Why a custom module

Sui does not ship a built-in spending delegation module. The [closed-loop Token](/onchain-finance/closed-loop-token/spending) system enforces policies on `Token` types, but most payment agents work with `Coin<SUI>` or `Coin<USDC>` (standard coins that are not subject to `TokenPolicy` rules).

> In Sui's object model, delegation works differently than ERC-20 allowances. Instead of granting a spender permission on your balance, you create a **capability object** (a `SpendingMandate`) and transfer it to the agent. The agent presents this object when executing payments. The Move module validates the mandate's constraints before allowing the transfer.

Author: ```suggestion
In Sui's object model, delegation works differently than ERC-20 allowances. Instead of granting a spender permission over your account balance, you create a capability object (a `SpendingMandate`), optionally fund the agent separately, and transfer the mandate to the agent. The agent presents this object when executing payments. The Move module validates the mandate's constraints before allowing the transfer.
```

## Move module

> The following module implements a spending mandate with per-transaction limits, a total spending cap, a recipient allowlist, and time-based expiry.

Author: ```suggestion
The following module implements a spending mandate with agent binding, per-transaction limits, a total spending cap, a recipient allowlist, and time-based expiry.
```

<ImportContent source="examples/onchain-finance/spending-policies/sources/spending_mandate.move" mode="code" tag="spending_mandate" />

## Creating a mandate (owner side)

The owner creates the mandate and receives a `MandateOwnerCap` for later administration. The function automatically transfers the mandate to the agent's address.

## Executing a spend (agent side)

> The agent reads its `SpendingMandate` object, validates locally, then builds a PTB that calls `execute_spend` with the payment coin.

Author: ```suggestion
The agent owns the `SpendingMandate` object. To execute a spend, the agent builds a PTB that passes the mandate, the payment coin, the recipient, and the `Clock` object to `execute_spend`.

The payment coin must be an input the agent can use in the transaction. The mandate does not withdraw from the owner's wallet. It only validates that this spend is within the mandate's bounds.
```

## Expiry and revocation

Use expiry for automatic shutdown and revocation for owner-triggered shutdown.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
:::tip Emergency kill-switch

For an emergency stop that does not require agent cooperation, use a shared `AdminConfig` object with a paused flag. The `execute_spend` function checks this shared object before processing. This gives the owner an independent onchain kill-switch even if the agent will not present the mandate object.

:::
```

### Time-based expiry

The mandate includes an `expires_at_ms` timestamp. The `execute_spend` function checks `clock.timestamp_ms() < expires_at_ms` before every spend. Once the mandate expires, the agent can no longer use it. The owner does not need to take any action.

### Owner-initiated revocation

To revoke a mandate before it expires, the owner must retrieve the mandate object from the agent. In practice, this means the owner requests the agent to present the mandate in a PTB that calls `revoke_mandate`.

> Because the agent owns the mandate object, the agent must co-sign this transaction. If the agent is unresponsive or compromised, the mandate still expires at `expires_at_ms`. Set short expiry windows for high-risk agents.

Author: ```suggestion
To revoke a mandate before it expires, the owner calls `revoke_mandate` with the `MandateOwnerCap` and the `SpendingMandate` object. Because the agent owns the mandate object, the agent must make that object available in the PTB. In practice, this means the owner asks the agent to co-sign a transaction that destroys the mandate.

If the agent is unresponsive or compromised, the owner cannot forcibly retrieve this address-owned mandate object. The mandate will still expire at `expires_at_ms`, so use short expiry windows for higher-risk agents.
```

:::tip Emergency kill-switch

For an emergency stop that does not require the agent to cooperate, use a shared `AdminConfig` object with a `paused` flag. The `execute_spend` function checks this flag before processing. See [Production Hardening](/onchain-finance/agentic-payments/production-hardening) for the pattern.

> :::

Author: ```suggestion

```

### Renewing a mandate

> To extend a mandate, the owner calls `update_cap` to increase the total cap or creates a new mandate with a later expiry. There is no `extend_expiry` function by design. Creating a new mandate with a fresh expiry is safer because it forces the owner to consciously re-authorize the agent.

Author: ```suggestion
To renew a mandate, create a new mandate with a fresh expiry. To increase the total cap on the existing mandate, the owner calls `update_cap` with the `MandateOwnerCap` and the current `SpendingMandate` object.

Because the agent owns the mandate object, updating the cap also requires the mandate object to be included in the PTB. There is no `extend_expiry` function by design. Creating a new mandate with a fresh expiry forces the owner to consciously re-authorize the agent.
```

## Comparison with TokenPolicy

| | SpendingMandate (custom) | TokenPolicy (framework) |
|---|---|---|
| **Asset type** | Any `Coin<T>` | `Token<T>` only (closed-loop) |
| **Enforcement** | Your Move module | Framework `token` module |
| **Scope** | Per-agent delegation | Per-token-type rules |
| **Use case** | Agent spending caps | Loyalty points, in-game currency |

> | **Configurable rules** | You define them | Pluggable rule witnesses |

Author: ```suggestion
| | **`SpendingMandate` (custom)** | **TokenPolicy (framework)** |
|---|---|---|
| Asset type | Any `Coin<T>` | `Token<T>` only (closed-loop) |
| Enforcement | Your Move module | Framework `token` module |
| Scope | Per-agent delegation | Per-token-type rules |
| Use case | Bounded agent spending for coins the agent can present | Loyalty points, in-game currency |
| Configurable rules | You define them | Pluggable rule witnesses |
```
